---
title: Visualization Project
tags: [Python, Altair, vega-lite]
style: fill
color: secondary
image: assets/pngs/Visualization Project.png
description: This is a course project that uses Python, Altair, and vega-lite for interactive viz!
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


# Visualization Project

Using Python, Altair and vega-lite to create two visualizations of a [building inventory dataset](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv)

<br>

#### Plot 1

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/visualization_project_chart1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

This plot visualizes the relationship between the total number of floors in buildings and the average square footage. The x-axis represents the total number of floors, and the y-axis represents the mean square footage of buildings with the corresponding number of floors. Since the X-axis and Y-axis are all quantitative variables,  I use a bar plot to visualize them. In order to observe the total average area between buildings with different floors, I combined the original bar plot with a "rule" mark. In this case, the user can randomly select the range of the "Total Floors" variable, and the plot will automatically find the corresponding total average area based on the selected range. I also set the horizontal line generated by the "rule" mark to red (firebrick), because the red contrasts strongly with the color of the bar plot and makes the horizontal line more conspicuous.

<br>

#### Plot 2

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/visualization_project_chart2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

This plot shows the total square footage of buildings constructed each year with different numbers of floors. Each area represents the total square footage of buildings constructed in a specific year, with different colors indicating the number of floors in those buildings. The color scheme used in the plot is "category20b" from Vega color schemes. Different colors are used to represent different numbers of floors, so it can be easier to distinguish between buildings with varying floor counts. The data in the plot is grouped by 'Year Constructed' and 'Total Floors', and the sum of 'Square Footage' is calculated for each group. This transformation aggregates the square footage of buildings constructed each year, categorized by the number of floors. Besides, an interactivity parameter is added to allow users to select specific points on the chart using a legend. This interactivity enables users to focus on specific floor categories, making the visualization more clear and interactive.

<br>

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/zzINFO303/zzINFO303.github.io/blob/main/python_notebooks/Visualization_Project.ipynb" text="Code" %}
</div>

